The results are in. Americans prefer Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's boldness to defend his nation against Iran over President Barack Obama's weakness in handling Iran's nuclear threat.
(One News Now) "After Americans got a taste of Netanyahu's strength and resolve to defend Israel at all costs against Iran's nuclear program when he addressed Congress last week, their approval of him registered 6 percent higher than their disapproval (32 percent favorable to 26 percent unfavorable). Obama's approval rating, on the other hand, dipped to 42 percent, compared to his 53 percent who disapprove of the job he's doing as president - a -11 percent favorability rating, according to Fox News.
The commander-in-chief's increasing unpopularity and Americans' disapproval of his job performance on the economy and foreign policy have been consistently demonstrated in eight different polls taken between February 18 and March 4, which gave Obama a 51.5 percent disapproval average and a 43.9 percent approval rating (-7.6 percent). Besides the Fox News Poll noted above, here are the separate results, with Obama's approval percentage presented first and his disapproval percentage second, with the difference between the two following: Gallup- 46/49 (-3 percent); Rasmussen Reports- 47/52 (-5 percent); Reuters/Ispos 41/52 (-11 percent); Quinnipiac- 41/52 (-11 percent); The Economist/YouGov 46/52 (-6 percent); PPP (D)- 44/50 (-6 percent); Pew Research- 44/52 (-8 percent).
With Israel we stand (minus the Obama administration)
With media reports indicating that American-Israeli relations as allies are at an all-time low, more Americans have been witnessed being critical of the Obama administration's increasingly anti-Israel foreign policy. With Obama, Vice President Joe Biden, Secretary of State John Kerry and other top Democrats snubbing Netanyahu by not attending his speech before Congress last week, Fox News asked Americans whether they thought it was good or bad idea for House Majority Leader John Boehner to invite the Israeli PM to speak. A decisive majority of Americans agreed that Netanyahu's invitation to speak was a good thing (56 percent), with only 27 percent believing it to be a bad thing.
The largest group of Americans (41 percent) believe that the Obama administration is not supportive enough of Israel, with only 14 saying he is too supportive of the Jewish State. About 35 percent said his support is "about right."
Furthermore, when asked about their take on Israel, 58 percent of Americans view the nation favorably, with only 25 percent giving it an "unfavorable" rating.
With the Obama administration's consistent pro-Palestinian foreign policy witnessed over his six years in office, the Fox News Poll demonstrated that Americans do not stand with him. Despite Obama's push for Israel to make concessions in its conflict with the Palestinians, only 11 of Americans view the Palestinian Authority as favorable, with a whopping 53 percent seeing it as unfavorable.
Obama ... be as tough on Iran as Netanyahu
Most Americans wish Obama would stand up to Iran as strongly as Netanyahu, whose nation, Israel, is physically smaller than the state of New Jersey, with only 1/40th the population of the U.S. (8 million versus 319 million).
Firmly standing against Obama's leaning to strike a deal with Iran regarding its nuclear program - which would allow it to obtain nuclear weapons in 10 years - 84 percent of Americans say the commander-in-chief's concession of wanting to negotiate with Iran is a bad idea, with only 9 percent believing it's a good idea.
When asked, "Do you think the United States has been too aggressive, not aggressive enough or about right in trying to get Iran to stop building a nuclear weapons program," 57 percent of Americans said it is not aggressive enough, with only 7 percent indicating it's been too aggressive. Approximately 27 percent indicated its opposition is "about right."
With numerous media reports corroborating last week that Obama threated Netanyahu that he would have U.S. military shoot Israel's fighter jets out of the sky it he went ahead with airstrikes against Iran's nuclear facilities, America made it loud and clear that it does not support the president's pro-Iranian/anti-Israeli policies regarding Iran's nuclear program. Standing once again against the president's foreign policy on Iran, an overwhelming 65 percent of Americans favor military action to keep Iran from getting nuclear weapons, with only 28 percent opposing such action.
Furthermore, 55 percent of Americans indicate that it would be a disaster if Iran gains the capability to use a nuclear weapon. Only 40 percent believe such nuclear capability could be managed, with just 4 percent not seeing it as a problem at all.
Where's the commander-in-chief in the war against Islamic terrorism?
Looking back to the days before the 9/11 Islamic terror attack, only 38 percent of Americans believe the U.S. is a safer place than it was before the jetliner hijacks of 2001. A majority (53 percent) feel less safe than they were 14 years ago.
In the war on terror, which the president has refused to say is against Islamic militants, most Americans (64 percent) indicate that they believe Islamic "extremists" are making gains, with only 26 percent saying the jihadists are losing ground.
Asked about their approval or disapproval of U.S. airstrikes against ISIS, an overwhelming 83 percent of Americans favor such action, with a mere 13 percent opposing it. Furthermore, 76 percent of Americans favor increasing U.S. airstrikes against Islamic terrorists, with only 19 opposing them. Along the same lines, 72 percent approve of using U.S. drone strikes against jihadists, with just 19 percent disapproving of such strikes.
Americans are a bit more apprehensive when it comes to on-the-ground U.S. forces fighting Islamic terrorism. Even so, a majority (52 percent) of them favor sending a limited number of U.S. ground troops to Iraq and Syria, with 43 percent saying "no." A smaller amount of Americans (42 percent) are behind sending a significant number of U.S. ground troops to the two nations, with 51 percent opposing such a military deployment.
A slightly higher percentage of Americans (46 percent) support providing weapons to countries, such as Jordan and Iraq, who are currently fighting Islamic terrorists, with 43 percent arguing against sending such military munitions.
Safe and secure in the world with Obama?
Concerns about the Obama's dealing with foreign relations has gained more media attention of late, spurring several questions about the administration's recent handling of international and border affairs.
When it comes to what kind of a negotiator Americans believe Obama is when dealing with foreign leaders, 54 percent consider him a weak negotiator, with just 40 percent seeing him as a strong in this area.
In regards to the temporary delay of funding for the Department of Homeland Security (DHS), 37 percent of Americans are very concerned about the government shutdown and Obama's failure to reach a deal. Thirty-one percent are somewhat concerned about this DHS issue, with 16 percent not very concerned and 14 percent not worried about it at all.
Also of concern to Americans is the president's bypassing of Congress by using his executive action to allow more than 4 million illegal immigrants to stay in the U.S. The Fox News' poll found that 53 percent of Americans were very concerned over this executive amnesty, with 21 percent being somewhat concerned, 9 percent being not very concerned and 16 percent showing no concerned at all.
