Christie slams Obama on economic policy

New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie (R), a possible 2016 presidential candidate, attacked President Obama’s economic policies in a Sunday interview.
 
“This president is failing because he cares more about redistributing wealth than he cares about creating and growing new wealth in our economy," he said on John Catsimatidis’ radio program "The Cats Roundtable."
 
"Gallup just came out recently with a survey that said only 44.1 percent of Americans are engaged in full-time employment in America," he said. "I mean, that’s disgraceful."

It's a common conservative argument that though the unemployment rate has gone down, it is not reflective of the overall job situation in the country.
 
"We have more people juggling part-time jobs than at any time in recent history," Christie said. "I joke, the president says he’s created jobs — the American people understand that because many of them have two or three jobs just to try to make ends meet."
 
Christie also took aim at Howard Dean, former Vermont governor and chair of the Democratic National Committee, for criticizing on his chances of winning the presidency last week.

"Howard Dean is a presidential loser," Christie said. "That’s the first we know about Howard Dean. He ran for president and he lost miserably, and he lost in an embarrassing way on national television. So I don’t think the people of New Jersey need a failed governor of Vermont to be coming into New Jersey to tell them what to do or what to think."
 
Dean famously dropped out of the 2004 Democratic primary for president after he yelled on television at a campaign rally — which some saw as a sign of his temper.
 
The New Jersey governor has continued to make the rounds as he prepares to launch a presidential campaign. It remains to be seen how voters will respond to his candidacy if he runs, but many wonder whether Christie can get them to look past the recent indictment of a former key aide in the "Bridgegate" scandal.

 
