 Obama Vows More Middle East Wars
Candidate Obama promised hope, peace and change. President Obama delivered duplicity, betrayal and endless wars of aggression against nations posing no threat to America or its neighbors.
He represents rogue leadership writ large. His rap sheet exceeds the worst of his predecessors – lawless, anti-progressive, one-sidedly pro-business and pro-war on humanity.
He deplores peace and stability. He goes all-out to prevent their emergence. He’s destroying fundamental freedoms in plain sight.
Core international, constitutional and US statute laws don’t matter. Police state justice replaced them.
America’s phony war on terror threatens world peace. War on Islam rages.
On Friday, Obama met with delegations from six despotic Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC) states: Bahrain, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates (UAE) – partners in crime with America.
Only two of six monarchs showed up. Four others sent subordinates – expressing opposition to Iranian nuclear talks and concern about Washington’s less than full support for their interests demanding condemnation.
Notably, Washington rejects a mutual defense pact GCC states want similar to one with Japan.
“…(T)he United States will stand by our GCC partners against external attacks,” Obama blustered. He affirmed an “ironclad commitment to (their) security.”
Code language for waging endless regional wars. America, Israel and Gulf states have no enemies except ones they invent.
The 1979 Carter doctrine remains US policy – stating any Persian Gulf threats (real or invented) would be “regarded as an assault on the vital interests of the United States of America, and such an assault will be repelled by any means necessary, including military force.”
GCC monarchs fear talks with Iran and prioritizing Asia could lessen America’s commitment to their interests.
Following Friday’s meeting, Obama recited a litany of long ago worn thin Big Lies saying:
“(T)he United States and our GCC partners cooperate extensively, countering terrorist groups like Al Qaeda and now ISIL.”
Fact: Al Qaeda, ISIL and other regional terrorist groups are US supported, funded, armed, trained and directed proxies used as foot soldiers against independent nations Washington wants replaced with pro-Western stooge ones.
Obama: America “oppose(s) the Assad regime’s war against the Syrian people.”
Fact: In early 2011, Washington launched proxy war on Syria using imported takfiri terrorists as foot soldiers. Assad defends his nation responsibly. He enjoys overwhelming popular support.
Obama: America “support(s) the legitimate government of Yemen.”
Fact: The US-installed Hadi regime had no legitimacy whatever. Washington continues waging terror-war against 25 million Yemenis wanting to live free from imperial dominance.
Obama: America “oppose(s) Iran’s destabilizing actions across the Middle East.”
Fact: Iran is the region’s leading peace and stability proponent. It values mutual cooperation among all nations. Washington, Israel and rogue Arab states are regional destabilizing forces of pure evil.
Obama pledged increased “security cooperation.” Code language for more weapons sales in a part of the world awash with arms and more wars against invented enemies.
America’s war on terror is war OF terror against sovereign independent nations worldwide.
Obama discussed what he called “the beginning of a new era of cooperation” between America and GCC countries – more terror wars against people wanting to live free from the scourge of US imperialism.
A joint US/GCC statement stressed “the political independence and territorial integrity, safe from external aggression” despite no existing threats.
A follow-up 2016 meeting is planned. Expect no letup in America’s imperial rampaging.
