Cruz accuses Obama of inflaming racial tensions
The Republican presidential hopeful says Obama has squandered chance to be unifying force

Sen. Ted Cruz on Wednesday accused President Barack Obama and his administration of inflaming racial tensions and pitting Americans against each other on major societal issues.
“President Obama, when he was elected, he could have been a unifying figure,” the Republican presidential contender said during an appearance hosted by the U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce.

“He could have chosen to be a leader on race relations and bring us together. And he hasn’t done that, he’s made decisions that I think have inflamed racial tensions that have divided us rather than bringing us together.”
Cruz’s comments come as Baltimore is recovering from riots and lootings that erupted this week following the death of 25-year-old Freddie Gray. Gray died last week after apparently sustaining severe injuries while in police custody, the latest in a series of fatal clashes between black men and law enforcement.
Obama on Tuesday called for Americans to do soul-searching about the underlying problem of impoverished communities that provide few economic and education opportunities for their young people.
Cruz on Wednesday said Obama and other administration officials have squandered chances to be a force for good on race issues.
He pointed to a moment during the 2012 presidential election when Vice President Joe Biden warned, to an audience that included African-Americans, that Republicans “want to put y’all back in chains.” That “kind of incendiary and hateful rhetoric,” Cruz said, was an example of the administration “deliberately dividing and inflaming tensions.” He also said that Obama should have used the shooting at an elementary school in Newtown, Conn., to unite the country, instead of pushing controversial gun control legislation.
When asked what he would do to improve race relations, Cruz said he backs criminal justice reform and that he would also focus on “tone and language and rhetoric. Not have the president inflaming racial tensions, rather have the president working to appeal to our shared values.”
Cruz touched on a range of issues during his appearance at the event, from the health care law to foreign policy. But a significant portion of his appearance was dedicated to discussing issues related to Hispanic outreach.
Cruz, the son of a Cuban immigrant, in some crowds rails against “amnesty.” The Texas Republican insisted Wednesday that he wants to pass immigration reform, but only if reforms are achieved in an incremental way, with a focus on finding common ground around border security and legal immigration, before dealing with any other issues.
The senator, who dropped references to his “tia” — Spanish for aunt — and made frequent references to “our community,” also said that Republicans should seek to connect with Hispanic voters around shared beliefs, such as family values and the importance of hard work.

“I don’t think I’ve ever seen an Hispanic panhandler. And the reason is: In our community it would be shameful to be begging on the street,” he said, a remark he has made before.
Cruz’s comments come during a week when fellow presidential hopeful Jeb Bush has also made a major effort to engage Hispanic voters. On Tuesday, Bush, a fluent Spanish speaker, was in Puerto Rico for several public events. On Wednesday, he addressed an evangelical Hispanic gathering in Texas.
Cruz on Wednesday struck a populist note as he asserted that Mitt Romney didn’t lose the 2012 election because of his position on immigration reform — he lost because Hispanics and others didn’t believe the GOP nominee cared about them.
“Where he got clobbered was, ‘Who cares about someone like me?’” Cruz said. “Where he got clobbered was, ‘47 percent,’” — when Romney suggested that 47 percent of people are “dependent” upon government and thus wouldn’t vote for a Republican.
“I think Romney is a good man who ran a hard campaign, but I cannot think of a statement in all of politics I disagree with more strongly,” Cruz continued. “I think Republicans are and should be the party of the 47 percent.”
One awkward moment arose when host Javier Palomarez, the president and CEO of the Hispanic Chamber, pressed several times for Cruz to clarify whether he would discuss his opposition to Obamacare and to Obama’s executive actions on immigration with the Hispanic community, where those views are less popular. Palomarez referenced a Time.com piece showing that Cruz avoided those issues in a Spanish-language ad.
Cruz declined to promise that those issues would be featured in any particular future ad, but after several back-and-forths, said, “What you’re hearing me say is, my message is going to be consistent.”
