30 Reasons To Dislike Barack Obama 

As a conservative, picking out things you don't like about Barack Obama is kind of like pointing to the wettest part of the ocean. It also goes beyond politics. Not only is Barack Obama wrong politically, he's not a good guy, "cool," or even moderately likable. To the contrary, he's one of the nastiest, least admirable people in politics and he gets by based on a phony persona he created when he ran for President in 2008 -- along with the help of press corps liberals that work to protect him like they're on his payroll. Based on his performance and his personality, Barack Obama deserves to be the least popular man ever to sit in the White House. 

1) Nobody but an ass would say, “It’s very rare that I come to an event where I’m like the fifth- or sixth-most interesting person.” 

2) He's a former (maybe, who really knows?) coke-snorting pothead who governs with all the care and due diligence you'd expect from a coke-snorting pothead. 

3) Barack Obama actually said, “The private sector is doing fine.” Given that the private sector has never at any point been doing fine since he became President, he'd have to be dumb, dishonest or delusional to say something like that. 

4) He is a bigger liar than Bill Clinton and Jimmy Carter put together. There's nothing the man says you can count on his meaning unless he's saying something nice about himself. 

5) He's made racist comments about white people. Just to name one example, 

    "That’s just how white folks will do you. It wasn’t merely the cruelty involved; I was learning that black people could be mean and then some. It was a particular brand of arrogance, an obtuseness in otherwise sane people that brought forth our bitter laughter. It was as if whites didn’t know that they were being cruel in the first place. Or at least thought you deserving of their scorn." 

6) His whole campaign in 2012 revolved around telling people Mitt Romney was an awful human being because he had money. Meanwhile, Barack Obama is worth 10 million dollars. What a hypocrite! 

7) He once picked his nose on camera. 

8) "The same guy who lectured the country on the importance of civility after Gabrielle Giffords was shot also refers to people he disagrees with politically as 'teabaggers.'" 

9) He ate a dog once which is just gross. 

10) He actually said, "Thank you, Planned Parenthood. God bless you. " We’re talking about people who murder babies for a living and he’s asking God to bless that? What a despicable man. 

11) He went to Jeremiah Wright's church for twenty years and considered the man his spiritual mentor even though his utterly vile former pastor is anti-white, anti-Semitic and anti-American. Ultimately, the only reason Obama threw him under the bus at all was because Wright criticized him. 

12) He looks like a pansy when he rides his little bike in mom jeans. 

13) He throws like a six year old girl. 
 
14) Americans dying in Boston or Benghazi? Obama was so indifferent he might as well have been talking about what he was having for lunch. But when gun control failed, that he got upset about. 

15) He's the single least competent man ever to sit in the White House; yet he's arrogant to the point of narcissism. He's like a third string high school basketball player who thinks he should be playing in the NBA all-star game. 

16) He's made an ass of himself by publicly inserting himself into both the Henry Louis Gates arrest and the Trayvon Martin case when he should have just shut his big yap and let justice take its course. 

17) He habitually demonizes successful people and businesses. 

18) He actually told Hispanic Americans that Republicans WERE THEIR ENEMIES, "If Latinos sit out the election instead of saying, ‘We’re gonna punish our enemies and we’re gonna reward our friends who stand with us on issues that are important to us,’ if they don’t see that kind of upsurge in voting in this election, then I think it’s gonna be harder and that’s why I think it’s so important that people focus on voting on November 2." 

19) America lost its AAA credit rating for the first time since 1917 on Obama’s watch and he blamed it on the Tea Party. Yes, seriously. 

20) One out of every five Americans is on food stamps thanks to Barack Obama and in his mind, that's a good thing because it makes those people more dependent on the government and therefore likely to vote for the Democrats. 

21) He decimated the American health care system with Obamacare, even though the American people didn't want it and the bill was universally opposed by every Republican in the House and Senate except Olympia Snowe, who later voted in favor of repealing it. 

22) He once threw his own GRANDMOTHER under the bus. HIS GRANDMOTHER. 

    “I can no more disown (Jeremiah Wright) than I can disown the black community. I can no more disown him than I can my white grandmother – a woman who helped raise me, a woman who sacrificed again and again for me, a woman who loves me as much as she loves anything in this world, but a woman who once confessed her fear of black men who passed by her on the street, and who on more than one occasion has uttered racial or ethnic stereotypes that made me cringe.” 

23) Time and time again he has said and done things that indicate that he doesn't like America, is ashamed of the country and finds the whole nation to be slightly embarrassing. 

24) Obama passed the DREAM ACT by fiat and illegally, unconstitutionally started the process of giving work permits to illegals. 

25) There are Americans and Mexicans dead because of Fast and Furious and Obama is covering it up Nixon-style by asserting executive privilege. 

26) He spends more time golfing and going on vacations than he does in meetings on economic policy. 

27) He's spending so much money that it's almost singlehandedly destroying the economic future of America. One day, kids will be pointing to his picture when they're asked about the moment when the American dream began to die. 

28) This is a man who demands credit for his "bipartisanship" while he says things like, "But I don’t want the folks who created the mess to do a lot of talking. I want them to get out of the way so we can clean up the mess. I don’t mind cleaning up after them, but don’t do a lot of talking.” What a jerk. 

29) After it came out that the Korean rapper Psy had wished death not just on American soldiers, but their wives and children, Obama made a point of shaking his hand publicly even though the fact he was in the same room with him had been controversial. 

30) Barack Obama may be the most crooked President ever to sit in the Oval Office. His campaign contributors at Solyndra got 535 million dollars they couldn't pay back and he broke the law to help his union cronies at GE and Chrysler while taxpayers lost 25 billion dollars on the deal. In a better, more honest world Obama would deserve to face possible JAIL TIME for what he did there. 
