6 Reasons Barack Obama Is A Failed President 

It's easy to just chalk up Barack Obama's terrible performance as President to "liberalism" or "incompetence," but it goes so much further than that. Obama is a ballerina running a steel mill, a fight fan working as a bouncer, a go cart aficionado racing in NASCAR. Barack Obama was elected because Americans were frustrated with the Republican Party, because he did a good job of reading uplifting speeches, and because Americans thought that if they elected the first black President, it would be a seminal moment for race relations in America. Unfortunately, GOP awfulness didn't translate into Democratic goodness, those speeches got dull in a hurry, race relations have gotten worse, and none of that has anything to do with Obama actually being capable of handling the most important job on the planet. Maybe next time, voters will ask the most basic question about the candidates running for President: are they competent to do the job or will we end up with another Obama? 

1) He was unprepared for the job: As Sarah Palin said back in 2008, "My fellow citizens, the American presidency is not supposed to be a journey of personal discovery." 

Yet, that’s exactly what the presidency was for Barack Obama. He had never run a business. He had never been a governor. His performance as a state senator in Illinois and during his very brief time as a senator was undistinguished. 

There was nothing about Barack Obama’s background that should have led anyone to think that he would be up to the job of being President and as it turns out, he isn’t. 

2) His aims are ideological and political, not practical: Barack Obama’s only concerns are… 

A) Is this good for me? B) Is this good for the Democrat Party? C) Is this good for liberalism? 

Whether it’s good for the country or not doesn’t even enter into the equation perhaps because Obama starts with the assumption that anything that’s good for him, the Democrat Party, and for liberalism must be good for the country by default. Sadly, the long line of broken promises, mishaps, and disasters that have defined his presidency say otherwise. 

3) He doesn't know how to work with Congress: Obama’s standard modus operandi is to propose something he knows Republicans will oppose, then trash them non-stop, refuse to meet with them, and cap it all off by complaining that they won’t work with him on anything. That’s not exactly a big secret, but a lot of people don’t know that Obama doesn’t work that well with congressional Democrats either. If you want to get an idea of what Democrats really think of Obama, this story about stimulus negotiations from Bob Woodward’s Price of Politics tells you all you need to know (PS: Just for the record, Pelosi denied this story in an unconvincing way, but I think Woodward, who is also a liberal, got it right) 

"Warming to his subject, he (Obama) continued with an uplifting speech. Pelosi reached over and pressed the mute button. They could hear Obama, but now he couldn't hear them. The president continued speaking, his disembodied voice filling the room, and the two leaders got back to the hard numbers." 

4) He's narcissistic: Is Barack Obama just a heavy duty narcissist or does he actually have narcissistic personality disorder? It’s impossible to say for sure, but either way, his self-centered behavior cuts all the way down to the core of who he is as a human being. Whether he was sleeping through Americans dying in Benghazi or golfing right after he talked about James Foley’s beheading, Obama is always primarily interested in himself. Leaders in this country are supposed to be servants of the people, not their masters. Having a man like Obama, who views the great power he has as a way to serve himself is dangerous for our country. 

5) He’s a poor planner who doesn’t think things through: Whether you’re talking about helping radical jihadists take over in Egypt or Libya, enabling Iran’s push towards a nuclear bomb, his “red line” in Syria, or his destined-to-fail-before-it-ever-begins plan to fight ISIS, you always come away with the impression that Obama formulates his foreign policy between holes on the golf course. Judging by his approach to Obamacare and immigration, his domestic policy isn’t much better. This is not a man who spends a lot of time thinking about the consequences of his actions before he makes a decision, which is a pretty scary trait for the President of the United States. It’s almost enough to make you suspect that the “choom gang” is still meeting in the Oval Office every night. 

6) He's habitually dishonest: Most of Bill Clinton’s fans would admit that he was a shameless liar, but even his enemies gave him a sort of backhanded compliment about how good he was at it with his “Slick Willie” nickname. Obama lies even more than Clinton and unlike “Slick Willie,” he insults your intelligence while he does it by not even trying to make his lies plausible. Not only is he lying, but you know he’s lying, he knows you know he’s lying and HE DOESN’T CARE. When you’re dealing with a bald faced liar like Barack Obama, you always know that nothing he says means anything more than, “If you like your health care plan, you can keep it.”
