By Craig Andresen via The National Patriot and Right Side Patriots on cprworldwidemedia.net
By Wednesday morning, the European Union had congratulated Bibi Netanyahu on his election victory over labor party rival Herzog.
By Thursday morning…Obama had done no such thing.
In fact, according to Reuters, John Kerry who is in Switzerland working on the ‘deal’ with the Islamic Terrorist State of Iran…REFUSED to address the questions posed by reporters regarding Netanyahu and the Likud Party victory.
Little wonder…after all, Obama had sent his top campaign adviser to Israel to mastermind the Herzog bid to get rid of Bibi and, Kerry’s Department of State sent the V15 group some $350,000 of U.S. Taxpayer money for the exact same purpose.
The goal naturally was to rid the world stage of Netahyahu so that the forces if Islam would have a much easier time of things. With Netanyahu out of the way…the path toward the nuclear arming of Iran would have been paved in gold…without Netanyahu…ISIS could actually become ISIL as Obama so optimistically calls them.
It’s fair to speculate that there was a meeting in the Situation Room at the White House on Tuesday night and that Valerie Jarrett was NOT at all happy.
I mean…they thought they had that election bought and paid for but things just didn’t work out the way they THOUGHT they would.
So sure were the liberals of the mainstream media that Netanyahu would LOSE that they geared up for it all day long on Tuesday just giddy over the opportunity to be the first to utter the phrase: “Netanyahu LOSES!!!”
Lester Holt who has replaced the lying Brian Williams over at NBC put it this way…
 
“The dramatic finish to a fight for power has ended with the last-minute threat that could destroy any chance of a peace plan.”
They were so devastated over at ABC on Tuesday night that they devoted all of 59 seconds to covering Obama’s defeat in Israel.
Over at CBS…Scott Pelley opened with…”Tonight, an election with big implications for the United States is a cliffhanger. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu is claiming victory but the truth is, it’s close. Netanyahu is a conservative who vowed there will never be a Palestinian state, and he says the Obama administration is giving away too much in its negotiations to stop an Iranian atomic bomb. His opponent focused more on the weak Israeli economy.”
CNN spent the entire day on Tuesday prepping for a Netanyahu loss and they had all their snide remarks ready to go and then…by 4:45 EST…Netanyahu had declared victory. CNN didn’t even MENTION the Israel election until 7:10pm EST and by THEN it was CLEAR that Netanyahu’s victory was so big it was there was NO WAY for Herzog to reverse it but here’s the opening line from CNN:
“Is Netanyahu About to Lose?”
They had NOTHING set up for a Netanyahu victory. CNN was SO sure that Bibi would LOSE that they failed to prepare even a single sentence for a possible Bibi victory and not only THAT but…THEY COULDN’T EVEN ADLIB SOMETHING ON THE FLY!!!
And what of the NY Times?
Here’s THEIR opening graph on Wednesday morning:
“After a bruising campaign focused on his failings, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel emerged from Tuesday’s elections in the best position to form a new government, though he offended many voters and alienated allies in the process.”
And then, there’s this from the liberal, Obama ass-kissing rag Solon…”Today, the prime minister engaged in racist fear-mongering to boost right-wing turnout, claiming that his government was “in danger” because “Arab voters [Palestinian citizens of Israel, who form approximately 20 percent of Israel’s citizenry] are coming out in droves to the polls.” Netanyahu’s alarmism over Palestinian citizens of Israel exercising their right to vote reflects an increasingly anti-democratic sentiment within Israel’s body politic.”
CNN also got the talking points…no doubt drawn up by Valerie Jarrett…
Christine Amanpour claimed that Netanyahu had employed “a sort-of racist police towards” Arabs that has been “very scary for them”
Liberals, when losing an argument, always scream “RACISM” and apparently, the same can be said of their reactions to losing an election and make no mistake…to the liberals of the mainstream media…this was OBAMA’S loss.
But politics in Israel are far different that politics here at home and while the headlines read “Netanyahu Wins” the fact of the matter is much broader than that. Yes…Netanyahu won but to be more accurate…the Likud Party won and now comes the challenge of piecing together a coalition party from the various other Conservative elements in Israel’s Knesset.
Aside from that, other winners in Tuesday’s Israeli election are Israel herself as Netanyahu, who will have a freshly built coalition can now set about strengthening his nation’s economy AND strengthening Israel’s security.
A big part of the latter will hinge on keeping Iran from obtaining nuclear weapons regardless of any Obama ‘deal’ in the works.
The other winner is the entire Middle Eastern region as without Netanyahu a nuclear arms race was in the offing as Saudi Arabia had already begun the process of exploring the purchase of such weapons from Pakistan and the purchase of delivery systems from China…plans that will, for now, take a back seat.
WITH Netanyahu remaining as Israel’s Prime Minister…the Arab countries have a more stable situation in the region and this should also allow a strengthening of the bond between Israel and Egypt which provides the basis for a whole different sort of coalition building to begin.
All of this, for the next two years, leaves Obama on the outside looking in as our allies in the region don’t trust him and our enemies in the region don’t fear him. With Obama on the outside, working feverishly to establish Iran as a nuclear power…Israel and Netanyahu must do what it is they MUST do and hold out until Obama is out of the White House and an administration is in place over HERE that will rebuild the relationship between the United States, Israel and the rest of our regional allies.
Here’s the bottom line and what it is that has Obama and his lapdog media beside themselves.
It’s not at all just that Bibi won on Tuesday…it’s the way it all went down.
Just two weeks prior, Netanyahu stood in the well of congress and delivered the speech…not just to the joint session but to the whole world…that OBAMA should have delivered which cemented Netanyahu as the world’s last remaining great statesman. Then, with Tuesday’s victory…Netanyahu took his place on the stage as the Leader of the Free World.
Obama, for all his trying to undermine the effects of Bibi’s speech and for all his attempts to undermine Bibi’s election, has lost a great deal of face to Netanyahu…twice in only two weeks and with the loss of face goes a corresponding loss of prominence on the world stage which does not bode well for Obama’s post-presidency plans.
My guess is this…by removing Iran and Hezbollah from the terror list, Obama hopes to make it easier for the U.N. to play along with his ‘deal’ with Iran thus clearing the way for a nuclear Iran but…with Bibi still in place4…Israel will have no part of it and if they act alone, as Bibi said they would…that’s strike three and Obama is out.
There’s no joy in Obamaville tonight.

 
Have Wonderful Dream, a Great Idea? Need Crowd Funding? Need money?
Now that "It's a Fund Thing" exists, all your dreams and ideas can become reality with the support of crowd funding and your peers who believe in your idea. So start today! Make your dream, or the dream of someone else come true. Be an inventor, someone in need, or a supporter, either way it is a win-win for all involved. Join the community and be someone who changes the world!

