(Info Wars) – Cuba, Venezuela, Russia and China now more free than America in notable ways.   In reviewing all the breaking news over the last few months and looking for the “big picture” of where America is headed, one pattern has emerged with striking regularity: America has quietly become less free in many ways than nations like Cuba, China and even Venezuela.   This is especially true in California, where “justice” has become a joke, and the power of the state is unleashed in personal vendettas against innocent citizens who have done absolutely nothing wrong other than refuse to bow down to state-run tyranny.
In California, the most freedom-crushing region of America, a man was recently thrown in jail for four days for photographing police. Photographing or video recording police is not a crime if done in a manner that does not directly impede their actions. But California police simply don’t “like” being photographed, so they throw people in jail, without charge, and let them rot in California’s third-world prisons for a few days as a form of retaliation.   In another case, California’s raw milk man James Stewart has just been released from jail after being forced to sign a plea deal with L.A. County which accused him of the heinous crime of distributing unpasteurized milk. His punishment? Nearly four months in jail, being treated as a terrorist and denied nutrition to the point where he emerged looking like a Nazi war camp prisoner.
The state then slapped on two felony charges, five years of probation, and a $300,000+ fine that the man has no way to pay because California raided his business at gunpoint, stole all his cash and then destroyed all the inventory of his business, including over $50,000 in fresh food.   This was all done, remember, for the “crime” of running a members-only club where people could pick up farm-fresh milk, eggs, cheese, melons and other better-than-organic foods.
This is the new California, where the government literally destroys your business, your inventory, your livelihood, your freedom and even your health. It’s all done on a whim by truly evil prosecutors like Kelly Sakir, one of the many prosecutors who went after James Stewart using infiltration agents, hidden cameras and other Stasi-style tactics borrowed straight out of the Communist Party.   Consider this for a moment: There is greater food freedom in Russian, Cuba and even China than in California. The idea of arresting people for selling raw milk is unthinkable everywhere else in the world except the United States of America (the new global communist state of oppression). Throughout Mexico, Central America and South America, the idea of arresting people for selling fresh milk is considered total lunacy.
But it’s now the status quo in America, the land of the previously free.   Obama’s destruction of the Bill of Rights
On the human rights front, the United States of America has now plummeted to a level approaching that of North Korea.   Thanks to President Obama, who increasingly appears to be a devout communist bent on destroying America culture and economy, the White House now creates secret kill lists of American citizens to be assassinated by government agents. This is not denied in Washington. It is, in fact, celebrated as an “important tool” for the completely fabricated “war on terror.”   With his signing of the NDAA in late 2011, Obama also nullified due process and the right to a fair trial. Now, American citizens who are merely “named” by the White House as being possibly involved in anything they call “terrorism” can be kidnapped and taken away to secret government interrogation centers where they can be held indefinitely, without charge, without a trial and without any civil rights or human rights.
This was all put in place by a president re-elected by over 50% of the American people, cementing an obvious communist into the top position of what one Russian columnist calls an “illiterate society.”   That columnist goes on to say:   President Vladimir Putin could never have imagined anyone so ignorant or so willing to destroy their people like Obama much less seeing millions vote for someone like Obama. They read history in America don’t they? Alas, the schools in the U.S. were conquered by the Communists long ago and history was revised thus paving the way for their Communist presidents. Obama has bailed out those businesses that voted for him and increased the debt to over 16 trillion with an ever increasing unemployment rate especially among blacks and other minorities. All the while promoting his agenda.   And he’s right. America is an illiterate society, where the ability to read, write or think critically has all but vanished. It has been replaced by a mass of zombified, brain-dead, obedient boot lickers who actually lined up and beg to be fitted with TSA shock bracelets and even full-body cavity searches before they fly.
Importantly, America has become the land of the enslaved, illiterate masses because the American people WANT to be enslaved. They beg to be told what to do, how to eat, how much water to flush in their toilets and what to believe about 9/11, the war on drugs, the war on terror, vaccines, public water fluoridation and every other grand delusion you can imagine.   No wonder states like Texas are looking at seceding from the union and forming their own nation states.   TSA’s criminal tyranny   The TSA, meanwhile, has destroyed U.S. tourism by humiliating and molesting air travelers from all over the world who now refuse to come to America.   Not even in North Korea are air travelers sexually molested by overpaid perverts and grown-up morons dressed up in a costume with a fake badge and the fabricated title of “officer.”
For the record, TSA employees are not in any way “officers.” They are drooling pedophiles, thieves, child porn distributors, power-hungry bullies and, by any standard, the scum of the Earth who were recruited by ads on pizza delivery boxes. Many of these TSA “officers,” if they weren’t feeling up the genitals of wives, grandmas and little boys and girls, would still be at home in their parents’ basements masturbating to internet porn or humping inflatable dolls.   What Jerry Sandusky did to young boys at Penn State, the TSA does to America every hour of the day.   But as employees of Obama’s ever-expanding federal government and “infrastructure of tyranny,” they receive ridiculously high federal salaries, health care, false authority and of course the power to yell “freeze” at the airport, demanding that all travelers FREEZE IN PLACE for absolutely no reason other than pure, idiotic obedience training.
This happens nowhere in the world except America. Not in North Korea, not in China, not even in the darkest times of Nazi Germany did Hitler’s soldiers sexually molest old ladies and rip apart their colostomy bags. Every other nation in the world holds its war veterans sacred, but in America, returning veterans are cast aside by the failed VA hospital system and even labeled “terrorists” by their own government.
This kind of cruel dehumanizing tyranny is uniquely American, and it is a symbol of not just the Obama administration’s unraveling communist manifesto, but also the tyranny and false flag ideology of the Bush administration before him.   Even in Singapore, where they literally beat criminals with canes in full view of the public, they do not sexually molest their own citizens as a requirement for travel. Only in America is this security theater insanity tolerated by the public.   The microchipping of public school students has begun   As InfoWars.com reports, a high school in San Antonio now requires students to wear RFID tracking chips or be expelled from the school.   Read the letter here, signed by the scum-of-the-Earth principal named Robert Harris and his co-conspirator-scum-of-the-Earth Jay Sumpter. Their phone numbers are listed on this letter. Please call them and let them know just how much patriotic Americans feel that these two individuals should be arrested and tried for their crimes against children, forcing little boys and girls to become electronically-enslaved subjects of a tyrannical system that’s now in the business of indoctrinating little children into the police state society.
The school’s public website has now been hacked by a 16-year-old student working in conjunction with other hactivists who decry the school’s outrageous electronic enslavement of our children.   How bad is it?   Just how bad are things in America, really?
Consider this: If God suddenly struck down all the people in America who hold hatred, oppression, destruction and greed as their core values, the population of bureaucrats and politicians in Washington D.C. would plummet to nearly zero. Sacramento would be reduced to a desolate ghost town. And the TSA would flat-out cease to exist.   Some say God is already judging America, and that she is reaping the consequences of generations of fabricated wars, imperialistic military occupation of world nations, the widespread abuse of animals and ecosystems, and even an increasing number of mindless abortions performed each year.   I’m not sure it’s God, however, who is destroying America. Far more likely it is the lazy cognitive convenience of modern-day liberalism, where the convalescent, illiterate masses strive only to achieve a lingering state of feeling comfortably numb as tyranny multiplies all around them. From such vacuous philosophy comes the slow, steady slide from freedom to enslavement, from peace to war, and from truth to delusion.
Presiding over this drop into the dark abyss is the perfect man for the job: Obama the Deceiver, the populist wizard of emotional voter voodoo… the man who can transform abundance into enslavement while being worshipped by the stupefied, indolent masses who remain clueless that their Land of the Free has been meticulously replaced, piece by piece, with an oppressive matrix of total enslavement to the state.
