Criticism of Obama Reaches New Level

Anger and distrust toward President Barack Obama never seems to cease on the political right.
The latest example is former New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani's statement that he does "not believe that the president loves America." This has generated another wave of anti-Obama criticism as the political atmosphere heats up in Washington and as possible Republican presidential candidates jockey for position.
Wisconsin Gov. Scott Walker, a likely GOP presidential candidate in 2016, declined to comment directly on Giuliani's criticism of Obama's patriotism, but seemed have his doubts about the president's love of country. "I don't know, I honestly don't know, one way or the other," Walker said.
Walker also said he doesn't know if Obama is a Christian. Walker told two Washington Post reporters who asked him about Obama's faith, "I've actually never talked about it or I haven't read about that. I've never asked him that. You've asked me to make statements about people that I haven't had a conversation with about that. How [could] I say if I know either of you are a Christian?" Walker tried to turn the question against the media, saying it was the type of query that has little or no bearing on what the public really cares about.
Jocelyn Webster, a spokeswoman for Walker, later phoned the Washington Post to say the governor was trying to point out the irrelevancy of the reporters' question, not challenge Obama's faith. "Of course the governor thinks the president is a Christian," Webster said.
Other conservatives have raised doubts about Obama before. Sen. Ted Cruz, R-Texas, a possible 2016 GOP presidential candidate, earlier this month called Obama "an apologist for radical Islamic terrorists," according to the Washington Post. Rep. John Fleming, R-La., said Obama "actually made a case to defend radical Islam" during a recent Obama speech. And Sen. James Inhofe, R-Okla., once said, "I just don't know whose side he's on," in battling America's opponents abroad, according to a New York Times columnist.
Giuliani, under attack by Democrats and some Republicans for going too far, has begun to soften his criticism a bit. The former New York mayor wrote an op-ed essay for the Wall Street Journal Sunday, noting, "I didn't intend to question President Obama's motives or the content of his heart. My intended focus really was the effect his words and his actions have on the morale of the country, and how that effect may damage his performance."
But Giuliani's comments have served as a reason for reporters to attempt to pin down possible Republican presidential candidates in assessing Obama. Addressing questions of patriotism and religion can put these candidates in difficult positions as they try to placate the conservative GOP base and at the same time try to avoid alienating more moderate swing voters.
A recent compilation of survey research by vox.com shows that Obama has become extremely divisive. During his six years in office, Obama has averaged 81 percent support from Democrats and only 14 percent from Republicans, a 67 percentage point partisan gap, the largest in polling history.
Obama causes visceral opposition for several reasons. One is that Obama has moved decisively to the left in a variety of ways. With increasing boldness, he argues for more government activism, more government spending, and more unilateral actions on his part to accomplish his goals by circumventing the GOP majority in Congress. This infuriates and frustrates many on the right but pleases the political left.
