By Craig Andresen via The National Patriot
It’s been nearly three years, March 23rd, 2012…since Obama played ‘Who’s your daddy?’ and it has stuck with him ever since.
“You know, if I had a son, he’d look like Trayvon.”
He was, of course, speaking of Trayvon Martin…the punk who attacked George Zimmerman and wound up dead for his efforts.
Trayvon Martin…a thug, gang wannabe who was into drugs, had a violent attitude and an apparent history of stealing things from other people’s homes. That is who Obama pictured as HIS son…not some upstanding member of society…not some straight A student…not somebody with potential…Trayvon Martin…punk…thug…drug user and thief.
I think Obama set the bar far too high.
Fast forward…nearly three years to the early morning hours of March 12th, 2015…Ferguson Missouri…that’s when and where two police officers were shot…standing in front of the courthouse while watching over yet another inane protest on the street.
Two shots rang out…two officers fell…one shot in the face…the other shot in the shoulder. Both will survive but the shooting set off a manhunt and after several days…an arrest was made.
Those who adhere to political correctness will call him a suspect or the alleged shooter, but…
 
The facts so far paint a much more politically direct label for Jeffery Williams.
The shooter who attempted to murder two police officers.
After all, Jeffery Williams was arrested at his home, the gun with the shell casings that matched the weapon used to shoot those police officers was in the house and…Jeffery Williams has ADMITTED that he was the trigger man but, he says, he wasn’t trying to shoot the cops…HE claims he was trying to shoot at somebody else instead.
Uh-huh…right.
Oh, I’m sure that when this all comes to trial, Williams will deny he did it and his defense team, the best race baiters can afford to provide to him, will try to lay the blame on anyone BUT Jeffery Williams but, as long as we’re talking pure fantasy here…why not just blame make-believe genetics???
Obama, it seems, has a penchant for imaginary sons so let’s just assign Jeffery Williams to Obama’s family tree.
‘You know, if I had a son, he’d look like Jeffery.’

Like father…like son.
From Jeffery Williams Facebook page we can see the genetic link to Obama in that they both seemed to crave the weed.
Here’s a little something from Obama for you to chew on…
“…The Cambridge police acted stupidly…”
Now HERE’S a little something for you from Jeffery Williams!!!

Are you starting to see the resemblance here?
Sons…even make-believe sons always seem to take after their fathers and if smoking pot wasn’t enough of a family trait…how about this? 
Daddy seems to approve doesn’t he?
Williams may or may not have been a regular at the Ferguson riots but the mainstream media is trying to portray him as some sort of loner lest the backbone OF those riots…the thugs who looted and burned their city’s businesses into oblivion and who have been outwardly screaming for the killings of cops, get blamed for being VIOLENT.
That just wouldn’t do at ALL now would it?
‘You know, if I had a son, he’d look like Jeffery.’
Jeffery Williams, if his Facebook and other social media posts are to be believed, is a self-absorbed, narcissist who just loves being the star of his own photos.
One has to wonder from where THAT genetic trait came?

Oh yeah…I almost forgot.
The problem is not that members of the black thug community don’t have enough role models…it’s that they have too many of the WRONG role models.
Most of their immediate role models are either in prison or dead which, let’s face it, sets a bad example. In the black thug community…you’re nothing until you have a police record…you’re something if you serve time in prison and you’re considered a saint if your thuggish ways get you killed.
Hello Mike Brown…whose most immediate role model was his lovely mother who added THIS to HER social media posts after Jeffery Williams shot those two police officers last Thursday…

“F**K THEM 2 COPS..DON’T GOT NO SYMPATHY FOR THEM OR THEY FAMILIES…Aint no FUN when the Rabbit got the GUN.”
And…
“If my FAM woulda got JUSTICE in August maybe those two comps wouldn’t have got shot LAST NIGHT…”
Obviously, HER son, the dead saint Mike Brown had the same mindset as dear old mom and it makes you wonder what Jeffery Williams’ kids are going to turn out to be. Oh yes…he has one son and another child on the way by what we suspect to be a different woman…which I suppose would be Obama’s imaginary grandchildren.
The problem with the BLACK community is that they are dwindling away. The black family unit which took pride in their strength and family values…teaching their kids that respect is earned by one’s actions and not owed to them in spite of their actions is being replaced by a second or third generation of black THUGS who are spawning like rabid rabbits.
Those who turn their backs on the thug culture are considered traitors, Uncle Toms or just not black enough. Making something of yourself, getting an education, becoming a productive member of society is scorned by the black thug culture while looting, committing arson, getting high or selling drugs and going to jail makes a young black thug somebody to be admired.
Shooting at the cops…maybe KILLING a cop…well, THAT makes you the role model to other thug role models.
Sadly, not all who make it out of the hood leave the thug culture behind and race baiting these days seems to hinge on the dead bodies of their imaginary sons.

It seems the only one of OBAMA’S make-believe offspring that has truly MADE something of himself in the thug culture is Jeffery.
Jeffery Williams, who so looked up to his role models that he shot two police officers last week and, like so many others in the black thug culture, he’s making excuses…claiming that he was ROBBED and that “he shot in the air at the robber…never meaning to shoot the cops.”
You see…it IS the cops own fault that they got shot. Those cops had NO BUSINESS being up in the air like that…in the line of fire between Jeffery Williams and a floating robber.
But where do you think ol’ Jeffery Williams…a thug, a self-absorbed narcissist, pot smoking, cop hating, WHITE hating, hood rat and gang-banger wannabe…got the idea to go to that protest with a gun last Thursday in the FIRST place?

What was it Obama told Al Sharpton and the Ferguson rioters-in-waiting last November 5th at the White House??? Oh yes…”Stay the course.”
‘You know, if I had a son, he’d look like Jeffery.’
Hey…cop shooter…Who’s your daddy???
