Barack Obama considered America's worst President since WWII 
President Obama is America’s worst leader since World War Two, according to a new poll.
In the latest blow to Mr Obama’s hopes of leaving a lasting legacy in the White House, one in three Americans named him as their least favourite president since 1945.
He finished just behind his predecessor, George Bush, who received 28 per cent of the vote in the Quinnipiac University survey.
“Over the span of 69 years of American history and 12 presidencies, President Barack Obama finds himself with President George W. Bush at the bottom of the popularity barrel,” said pollster Tim Malloy.
Ranked in order of how bad Americans say they were, the 12 presidents included in the survey were: Mr Obama, Mr Bush, Richard Nixon, Jimmy Carter, Lyndon Johnson, Bill Clinton, Ronald Reagan, Gerald Ford, George H.W. Bush, Dwight Eisenhower, Harry Truman and John F. Kennedy.
In a head-to-head match-up between the two most recent – and least popular – presidents, Mr Bush narrowly came out the victor, with 40 per cent of survey-takers saying he was a better president than Mr Obama and 39 per cent saying he was worse. 
Of those polled, most Americans believed the best man to serve as leader of the free world since the war was Ronald Reagan, a former Hollywood actor who held the office of the president for two terms from 1981- 1989. 
Reagan took a solid 35 per cent of the vote, beating out his closest competitor, Bill Clinton, by 17 points. 
Clinton, who was impeached by Congress during his second term for lying about his sexual relationship with White House intern Monica Lewinsky, was selected by 18 per cent of the poll’s takers as their favourite. 
Fellow philandering president John F. Kennedy came in third with 15 per cent of the vote. 
Mr Obama scored poorly in the survey, winning approval from less than half of voters on healthcare, the economy, terrorism and foreign policy.
A majority – 53 per cent – said they did not approve of the job he was doing, while 40 per cent said they approved.
Similarly, 51 per cent said Mr Obama does not have “strong leadership qualities,” compared to the 47 per cent of respondents who said he does.
Americans were split over whether they could trust the president, with 48 per cent saying they did and 48 per cent saying the opposite.
In another bitter pill for the president to swallow, more voters said they believed America would be better off if Republican candidate Mitt Romney had won the last presidential election in 2012.
“Would Mitt have been a better fit? More voters in hindsight say yes,” said Mr Malloy, of Quinnipiac University.
Asked about the poll’s findings yesterday, White House Press Secretary John Earnest insisted: “There’s no doubt that the president has the leadership and stature necessary to call upon the American public to rally around the kinds of ideas that are in the best interests of the country.”
“The president is going to continue to do that,” he added

