(Downtrend) - Obama’s fragile ego just took another hit. Forbes Magazine released its 2nd annual list of 50 Greatest Leaders and the President didn’t make the cut. You’d think that running the only superpower on the globe and being the leader of the free world would get you on the list by default, but apparently not. This is clearly a testament to how absolutely terrible Obama is at being President.
This year’s list seems to focus less on elected leaders and more on people that Forbes feels innovate, motivate, and generally get things done. Yet another reason why Obama was snubbed. One through five are: Apple CEO Tim Cook, President of the European Central bank Mario Draghi, Chinese President Xi Jinping, Pope Francis, and Indian PM Narendra Modi.
After this, this list gets pretty hilarious just because of who made it instead of Obama. At #6 is Taylor Swift. No really, a pseudo-country pop star bested the President of the United States because as Forbes says she is “savvy” and “shrewd.” Well, I guess she has Obama beat there.
Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz came in at #17. You remember him, right? He’s the guy that thought it would be a good idea for his employees to harass customers about racism only to pull back a week later. Even with his poor judgment, he’s still a better leader than Obama.
NBA star LeBron James made the list at #31. James is the poster child for a lack of loyalty having left Cleveland to chase money and championships, only to abandon his fans in Miami. Obama has no loyalty to anything, especially America. Why didn’t he make the list?
#45 is talk show host Jimmy Fallon. His only job is to be funny and he fails miserably, yet somehow is a better leader than Obama. I imagine this one stings the most because our President likes being on TV more than he likes being in the White House.
Even Mike Duggan, the Mayor of Detroit, got recognized at #20. Insert your own joke here.
The biggest reason Obama didn’t make the list is explained by Forbes’ criteria:
We set out to find singular leaders with vision who moved others to act as well, and who brought their followers with them on a shared quest. We looked for effectiveness and commitment and for the courage to pioneer. All had to be active in leadership roles…
That perfectly describes someone who is not Barack Obama.
Last year Forbes put out a list of the 72 Most Powerful People and Obama came in at #2 behind Russian President Vladimir Putin. The President had to have been hurt by that, but not making the top 50 leaders has to be devastating for him. For a narcissist like Obama any lack of recognition is a symbolic knife in the back. Forbes has made themselves an enemy with this list.
http://downtrend.com/?p=25460

