The Obama administration has worked for years to lure states into accepting Obamacare’s Medicaid expansion under the false promise of “flexibility.” Despite its best efforts, 21 states have rejected the expansion. And at least two states that previously expanded Medicaid under Obamacare are looking to turn back the clock and draw down their Medicaid expansions in 2016.
The Obama administration is desperate for a national leader like Florida to expand Obamacare, hoping it will set off a chain reaction to convince leaders in other states to fall in line. So, frustrated with its lack of success in convincing conservatives to give up their principled opposition to Obamacare, the administration has moved on to a new tactic: Sopranos-style blackmail.
Obama Holding Medicaid Funding Hostage
Last month, Obama officials sent a letter to Florida’s Medicaid agency, warningthat it may not reauthorize $2.2 billion in unrelated Medicaid funding unless the state agrees to expand Obamacare. These actions make the administration’s priorities crystal clear: expanding welfare for able-bodied adults is more important than funding for hospitals treating poor children, seniors and individuals with disabilities.
At the same time that Obama is threatening to cut funding for Florida’s hospitals, his administration is engaged in a false messaging campaign in the press to gin up support for his reckless tactics.
The Origin of LIP Funding
The administration has tried justifying its blackmail by painting funding for the Low Income Pool POOL +0.53%(LIP) as payments for uncompensated care, which it argues would no longer be needed if Florida expanded Medicaid under Obamacare. But even a cursory review of LIP funding history reveals this isn’t the case.
LIP was initially created to replace supplemental hospital payments as the state moved from a fee-for-service system into reformed Medicaid managed care. Prior to creating LIP, Florida used these payments to provide safety net hospitals with $660 million in supplemental funding in order to maintain adequate access for Medicaid enrollees. These payments typically filled some of the difference between Medicaid’s low reimbursement rates and the somewhat higher Medicare rates.
But when Florida began implementing its Medicaid reform in the mid-2000s, state officials hit a snag. Federal regulations only allowed these supplemental hospital payments for services provided through fee-for-service Medicaid programs, generally prohibiting them for services delivered through the new reformed managed care program.
Worried these supplemental payments would go away, the state made its waiver agreement “contingent upon federal approval to preserve the upper-payment-limit funding mechanism for hospitals.” Through negotiations, Florida was able to gain federal approval to disburse up to $1 billion in supplemental payments through a new funding mechanism, now known as LIP.
In order to gain federal approval, Florida also offset those supplemental payments with savings from its Medicaid reforms. In this way, Florida was simply seeking to reinvest some of its reform savings back into the providers serving Medicaid patients.
Between 2007 and 2013, federal and state data highlight that actual Medicaid spending under Florida’s waiver was a total of $15.2 billion lower than it would have been absent the waiver. The LIP program allowed Florida to reinvest approximately $6.8 billion of those savings back into safety net hospitals over that same time period. Ultimately, even with the additional LIP funding, spending under Florida’s Medicaid waiver was $8.4 billion below the baseline used for budget neutrality.
In 2014, Florida officials agreed to move $1.2 billion in other Medicaid funding into the LIP program as part of its waiver negotiations with the federal government. Prior to the new agreement, local governments had used self-funded intergovernmental transfers to exempt certain hospitals from cuts to Medicaid reimbursement rates and raise their rates to Medicare levels. The state had also previously operated a $205 million program that provided supplemental payments to teaching physicians. Those payments were also moved into the LIP program in 2014.
In short, LIP funding primarily boosts payment rates to hospitals treating Medicaid patients, not fund uncompensated care costs. According to state data, regular Medicaid payments cover just 62 percent of hospitals’ cost to treat Medicaid patients. With LIP funding, those payment rates bump up closer to 95 percent of the cost.
The Obama administration insists that expanding Medicaid would reduce or eliminate the need for those supplemental payments. But when you’re losing 38 cents for every dollar spent treating Medicaid patients, expanding Medicaid to more than a million new enrollees won’t make the situation better.
Florida Suing President Obama Over Medicaid Expansion Again
This isn’t the first time that President Obama has held Florida’s most vulnerable residents hostage in an effort to implement Obamacare. Remember, Obamacare originally threatened to cut off all existing federal Medicaid funding if states refused to expand Medicaid to a new class of able-bodied adults.
Florida responded to this unconstitutional threat by taking the Obama administration to federal court. (By 2011, 25 other states had joined Florida’s lawsuit, while two additional states had filed separate Obamacare challenges.) Ultimately, Florida’s challenge led to a 7-2 Supreme Court making the expansion optional.
Despite the Obama administration’s lopsided loss at the Supreme Court, it’s now attempting the same political ploy. It wants to hold pre-existing Medicaid funding hostage to force states to expand Obamacare, exactly what the Supreme Court ruled was unconstitutional just three years ago.
Governor Rick Scott (R-FL) has now filed a lawsuit to stop the Obama administration from holding Florida’s Medicaid budget hostage. Officials in Kansas and Texas are preparing to join the fight, now that Obama is making similar threats to their own Medicaid funding. The Florida House of Representatives has also made clear that Medicaid expansion isn’t even on the table.
President Obama may think he’s playing hardball with Florida policymakers, hoping new threats will ease principled opposition in a way that bribes with “free federal money” have not. But what he’s really doing is eroding any headway his administration has made in convincing state leaders it was offering flexibility.
