I get tired of hearing the Republican base blaming Obama for everything and refusing to credit him for the good he has accomplished. By base I mean the racist, women hating, poor are lazy, god fearing, gun nuts, and the psychotic crowd. The right wants Americans to think they are the righteous strength of the United States, but in fact they are spineless. Everything I've listed above they are afraid of. In fact, they are not the strength of this country, they are scared shitless. It's how the Republicans win elections. They make their base of unenlightened voters into fearful Republican zombies so they'll buy the same ideological crap every election. Nothing has changed in the Republican party in 50 years. Meet the new boss. Same as the old boss. 
So enter this intelligent thoughtful politician who challenges the status quot of Republican dogma and the fireworks begin. Throw in the fact that he is an African-American and all common sense is left at the train station without a ticket to sanity town. It's not just enough for Republicans to make voters afraid of the policies of the left, now they have to make you afraid of the president or the boogeyman in chief.
The left feels as if they have to defend the president from these attacks, but often don't. Defend him from what? The truth? Because the truth is Obama has been a damn good president which seems to get lost in all of this prick fighting.
Here's what Nobel prize winner Paul Krugman said about Obama, a president he has had criticisms of.
...Obama faces trash talk left, right and center - literally - and doesn't deserve it. Despite bitter opposition, despite having come close to self-inflicted disaster, Obama has emerged as one of the most consequential and, yes, successful presidents in American history. [...]
First he saved the economy. He was left with a disaster after Bush's two wars and tax cuts for the rich. The Obama administration saved the US automotive industry, rescuing an unimaginable number of jobs. In the early days when congress was somewhat sane, Obama was able to pass a stimulus package that delivered the nation from economic collapse. Almost anything he has tried since has met with disdain by congress and has seriously hampered efforts to improve the economy more. The U.S. economy has been slightly above the national average for post recession recovery.
Second. Despite all of the posturing by the Republicans, Obama was able to pass a health care plan so that millions of Americans will have a safety net for health issues. The Republicans were against it. So much so that they voted around 50 times to repeal it. They say as Mitch McConnell did that Obamacare "is the worst piece of legislation in the last half-century." In fact, Republicans hate the Affordable Healthcare Act so bad they have said they will force another government shutdown because of it. A shutdown that will most certainly be blamed on the Republicans.
But that's not the amazing part. Tell me why the Republicans hate the ACA so bad? You can't. Know why? Because they can't. I can't find one Republican legislator who has succinctly listed the reasons why Obamacare is so bad. Could it be that's it's really not that bad for America. Or, is it because it subsidizes the middle class and the poor which Republicans have an aversion to.
America is starting to like the Affordable Care Act.
Moving forward, we should look at the ACA as an "enabling" legislation. It is designed to be a resource in healthcare delivery transformation. This transformation will be led by many stakeholder groups such as patients, physicians, insurers and the breadth of public and private sector healthcare organizations. There is a long way to go and a lot of hard work to do. The ACA in itself does not end the problem, but it is a starting point for progress which will lead to a more sustainable healthcare system.
Lastly, here are some other accomplishments of the Obama administration.
Passed Wall Street Reform, and Dodd-Frank for Consumer and Bank Financial Protection
Ended the Iraqi War
Killed Osama bin Laden
Repealed "Don't Ask, Don't Tell"
Reversed Bush Era Torture Policies
Forced banks out of the Federal Student Loan Program
Boosted Automobile Fuel Efficiency
Achieved New START Treaty
Of course, Obama has made mistakes. But unlike congress he was a leader on initiatives which have improved the lives of Americans.
My suggestion to the Democrats is to stop letting the Republicans control the story. Democrats provide little defense for Obama when he is attacked from the right and candidates are avoiding Obama during the mid-term elections. This only gives credence to the Republican argument that Obama is an inconsequential president who can't lead when nothing could be further from the truth. In fact, the Democrats are the ones acting spineless. To me these Democrats are hurting the party and the country by selfishly trying to save their seats in congress.
Democrats should stand tall and shout from the top of their lungs, "Obama is a damn good president and I'm proud he is my Commander-in-Chief. So here's a message for you Republicans ... F^*k you." It's the truth. In a Democratic vacuum the only voices the public hears are those of Republicans.
