A Recap Of President Barack Obama's Visit To Watertown
WATERTOWN, S.D. - 
It's been almost a month since the city of Watertown was first notified that President Barack Obama would be giving the commencement speech at Lake Area Tech.
Friday, the long-awaited day finally came as thousands of people gathered to catch a glimpse of the 44th President of the United States.
It was a historic day for the nation and for the people of South Dakota.
Not only did President Obama become the fourth president to visit all 50 states, but he also delivered an unforgettable commencement speech to graduates at Lake Area Tech.
President Barack Obama can now check South Dakota off his list.
After safely arriving on a smaller Air Force One plane, President Obama made his way to the Lake Area Tech Graduation Ceremony.
“Well, hello Watertown,” said President Obama. “It's good to be in South Dakota."
The president's much-anticipated trip to city of 21,000 people has been the talk of the town.
“I think it's pretty amazing,” said Ramona Voegele, Watertown Resident. “It's not a very large town actually compared to some of the cities that we have in South Dakota but today, it's a special day....especially for all of the graduates from Lake Area Tech.”
Shiloh Day traveled all the way from Rapid City to see her younger sister graduate from Lake Area Tech.
“It’s just really awesome to see this school and the greatness it has done for the students being recognized as well as the state of South Dakota,” said Day.
“So, Leanna Waldner....where's Leanna? Come on, don't be shy,” said President Obama. “She's here somewhere. There she is."
Day says President Obama’s recognition of individual graduates during the commencement speech was "icing on the cake."
“…And Leanna says, ‘I didn't think I’d ever be in that position to walk across that stage and get a diploma,’” said President Obama. “But here she is, about to walk across this stage and earn her financial services degree."
Lake Area Tech graduates like Bobbi Williams also had good things to say about President Obama’s speech.
“It’ll be something that will never be forgotten,” said Williams. “It was amazing. It was great to have him here. No matter what your political views are, he was here."
“Congratulations to the class of 2015,” said President Obama. “And good job Lake Area Tech! We're proud of you.”
Politics aside, most everyone agrees it was a big deal to have the president come to South Dakota, especially to Watertown.
It took President Obama seven years to visit South Dakota and he is the first sitting president to ever visit Watertown.
All members of South Dakota’s congressional delegation were at the speech yesterday as well as Governor Daugaard and his wife Linda.


