President Barack Obama's Leadership Styles
The office of the American presidency is a multi-faceted occupation that requires many kinds of leadership styles. This hub briefly discusses some of the hats worn by American President Barack Obama during the first five years of his presidency. Mostly the article focuses on three broad leadership styles including transformational-charismatic, cross-cultural, and contingency-situational leadership. Recently, I added the opinion polls to allow you to rate how you think President Obama has faired in these areas and overall. Please feel free to participate.
Transformational-charismatic
Before the election, President Barack Obama attracted the attention of American's and foreigners alike with a seemingly charismatic nature. A charismatic leader has an uncanny ability to draw others to his side and move them to accomplish a cause bigger than themselves. A charismatic approach is transformational if it invokes a permanent change in the people who embrace the leader's vision. During his first term, President Obama wooed at least some to his vision by showing the potential to make a huge difference in both domestic and foreign affairs. In his second term, he seemed more aloof and demonstrated less ability to draw others to his agenda. Some even feel that he has not lived up to full expectations.
Cross-Cultural-Global Leadership
Under the Bush Administration, America's image lost much of its shine. This was mostly due to a unilateral, ethnocentirc foreign policy espoused by Bush and Cheney. While not taking America's safety needs for granted, President Obama formulated a more cross-cultural approach to the world, thinking not only of the US's interests but also the interests of the other nations as well.In the first six months on the job, President Obama traveled abroad more than any other president at that point of his administration and seemed to pay careful attention to cultural norms in the places where he traveled.
After his first year, the President's attempt to be more conciliatory to the Middle East, China, and Russia were welcomed by the world in that he received the Nobel Peace Prize. In other trips in the subsequent years, Obama was often criticized for kowtowing to foreign officials that critics declared showed a sign of weakness. Still, President Barack Obama did well to learn of the greeting customs of even small nations like Cambodia that showed respect to their Heads of State.
However,some believe the President's policies toward the Middle East helped bring about the Arab Spring which resulted in the overthrow of at least a few pro-American regimes. After six years in the White House there are a number of hot spots around the globe that some see resulted from Obama's lack of leadership in the world. Those hot spots included Syria, the rebel group ISIS's march through northern Iraq, Russia threatening invasion into eastern Ukraine, and China's many disputes about territorial waters in the East and South China Seas. 
Contingency Leadership 
During his first five years in office, Mr. Obama not only displayed culturally sensitive and transformational leadership, he responded to various situations using different types of leadership models. In this way he modeled what has been described as contingency leadership. When traveling abroad Obama was conciliatory, humble and apt to listen before speaking. When he faced the failing automobile industry, he did not mince words but stood tough to call for necessary changes. This was seen in how he forced GM and Chrysler to accept new MPG standards and pare down their long-time commitment to NASCAR. Under the heat of the current foreign and economic troubles, Obama worked hard to accomplish what he promised understanding that each second he waited could have meant a lost home or job for another group of citizens. Whether one liked what he did or not, Obama did not shy away from the challenges that faced him when he accepted the job as president.
President Obama's Personaility Profile
President Obama's Personaility Profile
Sarah Moore and Angela Rodgers, students at the College of Saint Benedict in St. Joseph, Minn., did a research project on “The Personality Profile of President Barack Obama: Leadership Implications” and presented the results at the 6th annual Minnesota Private Colleges Scholars at the Capitol event, Feb. 19, in the State Capitol rotunda, St. Paul, Minn.
The profile revealed that Barack Obama is ambitious and confident; modestly dominant and self-asserting; accommodating, cooperative, and agreeable; somewhat outgoing and congenial; and relatively conscientious. The combination of ambitious and accommodating patterns in Obama’s profile suggests a “confident conciliator” personality composite.
Leaders with this personality prototype, though self-assured and ambitious, are characteristically gracious, considerate, and benevolent. They are energetic, charming, and agreeable, with a special talent for settling differences and a preference for mediation and compromise over force or coercion as a strategy for resolving conflict. They are driven primarily by a need for achievement, but also have substantial affiliation needs and a modest need for power.
The study offers an empirically based framework for anticipating Obama’s performance as chief executive. The following general predictions regarding Obama’s likely leadership style can be inferred from his personality profile:
Ambitious, self-assured, gracious, considerate 
Preference for mediation and compromise over force or coercion as a strategy for resolving conflict 
High need for achievement; moderate need for affiliation; low need for power 
More pragmatic than ideological 
More task- than relationship oriented 
Likely to act as a strong advocate in his administration, using his powers of persuasion to advance his policy vision 
Preference for gathering information from a variety of sources rather than relying solely on advisors and administration officials 
In dealing with members of Congress, may show preference for avoiding unnecessary conflict by trying to remain above the fray in heated, highly divisive debates 
Preference for articulating and defending his policies in person rather than relying on staff and administration officials to speak for him






