The 3 Main Leadership Qualities of Obama and Romney
WOW…What a summer it has been.  I have not blogged in over three months, and I have frankly felt that I really did not have anything too terribly earth shattering to write about given all that is going on with our world.
I have avoided talking about the US political election for some time, and today, I have made the decision to lay out for you what I see as the three biggest assets of the two main candidates and their one biggest challenge or downside.  This is simply my opinion from listening to each candidate speak and watching them interact in front of a crowd.  I have never met either candidate, so I am not unlike 99% of the population.  Most of us only see these candidates on the stump or on television.
Too often, during elections, we hear of promises, hopes, past records and bones in the closet  What we don’t often hear about are the true leadership skills of the candidates.  As a leadership coach, I have to say this is a shame.  We really should be looking closely at the soft skills when making our decision about who our next President will be.  So, during this post, I won’t be talking issues.  You can find that all over the internet.  I want to strictly talk about the leadership traits that I see as critical to making a decision when we all vote on November 6.  And…if you don’t think leadership skills matter in our president, I encourage you to think again.  Anyone can stand in front of you and tell you what they plan to do.  The leadership traits are what drive a leader to make a decision or not.
President Obama:
Presentation Skills: We all know that this is where President Obama really shines. He is highly effective in a variety of formal presentations for both small and very large groups. He commands attention and can manage himself quite well during hot or controversial topics. He also is able to change the topic or tactics midstream when something is not going well and has become known for pleasing the crowd by telling a great joke or singing an Al Green tune.  He just knows how to work a crowd, and people love this about President Obama.
Vision: President Obama is a visionary thinking…he thinks BIG!  Anyone can hear and feel in his presentations:  President Obama has a huge vision for the future. The challenge has been for the President to scale that big vision down into steps that can be taken today so that we can all see that he is indeed moving in the direction of that vision. It is easy for visionary leaders to get lost in the future without looking at today, and if re-elected, it will be important for President Obama to speak about what he plans to do today and how those steps, if repeated over time, will create a stronger future for our country.
Connecting With Others:  President Obama seems to be someone who is extremely comfortable in his own skin, is an inspirational speaker and seems to connect with a wide variety of people across cultural boundaries and socio-economic groups. This is what makes him so effective during a political campaign. People want to LOVE their president, and his appeal and warmth do come across over television and during presentations.
Biggest Shortcoming: Over-promising and under-delivering. While President Obama may have been trying to take action and drive for resuts the last four years, Americans have not really seen some of the most important promises Obama made four years ago come to fruition.   I do want to acknowledge that the President did come into his current position during one of the toughest economic times in American history, and to turn everything around in four years is a tough job indeed. Having said that, I would never advise a leader to fill people with promises, hopes and dreams of a record low unemployment rate, a balanced budget and a strong fiscal plan that are far beyond what was truly possible. Tough times call for straight talk and under-promising and over-delivering would be better for this incumbent President than promising the moon and not delivering it.


