Barack Obama Leadership Traits
Barack Obama is a polarizing figure for many Americans, but there is no denying that his leadership style has been effective in creating new policies and inspiring economic growth after the Great Recession of 2008. Like him, hate him, or don’t care about him, there are certain lessons that can be learned from his leadership traits. Here is a look at Obama’s leadership qualities.
1. Collaboration
Obama does not really like a good argument. Instead of being forceful with his own opinion, Obama tends to listen to others first and then make a decision. Collaboration also helps him to be more thorough with the research behind every decision so that the best decision can be made at any given time.
2. Decisiveness
When Obama makes a decision, he believes it is the correct decision. He stands by it with unwavering certainty and will defend it at all costs. When he can be effectively disproven, then he is willing to take a second look at things, but without concrete proof, he will not waver from the course that he has chosen to go.
3. Thinker
Obama also tends to take time to think about a decision before it is made. In many ways it is like a game of chess, anticipating what moves will happen on the board after a decision has been made. He’ll weigh the risks and rewards of what he is thinking about doing and then act when the rewards make sense. The one danger of being a thinker, however, is that you can get trapped in thought and never end up doing anything.
4. Personal Time
Although he is often criticized for it, Obama isn’t afraid to take personal time away with his family in order to stay fresh. Leaders need to take time away sometimes, even if it is just to gain a fresh perspective on a difficult situation. Getting away from stress helps to maintain ones balance and energy, making them a being a better leader in the long term.
5. Honesty
Even as Obama’s second term as President has not materialized into what many hoped it would be, many still respect him for the fact that he maintains an honest perspective in any situation. Although more people disagree with his perspective at this time, he still maintains an honest attitude toward whatever job needs to get done.
6. Compassion
This may be his greatest leadership trait. His compassion for the lower “classes” in the US has helped him to maintain his overall approval numbers and can be seen in the actions that he takes. He makes decisions based on the input of his team and how it will impact the most people in the best way.
7. Fearless
Obama doesn’t really care what the critics have to say about his decisions because he is resolute in his ability to make the right choice. Even if he is the only one that is standing tall, Obama is fearless in blazing a new trail if that is what is necessary to cut through red tape or create change that will benefit the country.
