Barack Obama: Crisis and Leadership
The first year of President Barack Obama's tenure has been marked by a series of unrelenting crises requiring a steady flow of adrenaline. Obama is front and center in a firestorm of partisan politics. With the added pressure of being the U.S.'s first African American President, he is fighting for the survival of the hopes and aspirations that brought him to office just 12 months ago.
Evaluating Obama's performance must be done through the framework of crisis leadership, where the test of great leaders is not merely what they do in times of crisis, but also who they become as a result of struggle. Clearly, Obama can't yet be judged on the latter point. Not since World War II has any U.S. President faced as many concurrent challenges, let alone one with stakes as great: an imperiled global economy; two wars in the Middle East; a political maelstrom that constrains progress on critical domestic issues; terrorist threats to airline safety; and recently, a natural disaster of horrific proportion in neighboring Haiti that has refocused the eyes of the world on Obama's Presidency and the U.S. response to yet another crisis.
When I wrote about Obama shortly after his inauguration, I characterized him as demonstrating three passions: the Healer, the Transformer and the Conceiver. (Please note: I have never worked with Obama, so my characterization of his passion archetypes is based on my extensive research on passion, coupled with my observations about the President.) Healers deeply feel the pain of others and work to alleviate suffering; Transformers thrive in the chaos of change and uncertainty while helping others navigate the winding road to a better place; and Conceivers enjoy exploring new concepts and pushing past old boundaries of thought to discover powerful new possibilities.
Events of the last year have called upon all three passions in large measure and have required a crisis leader who possesses the essential skills of intelligence, influence, courage, vision, and a commitment to communicating with the nation and beyond. So let's look at how the President has applied both his skills and passions, how he has evolved through crisis, and what aspects of his leadership need improvement.
Economic Collapse
Upon entering office last January, Obama found a fractured financial system and a world economy sliding into an abyss. His Administration developed and delivered a plan to pull the U.S. back from the edge of financial collapse, employing the stimulus package as one part of that plan. While maligned on both sides of the aisle as either insufficient or too expensive, the stimulus was quickly enacted and by the fall of 2009, the precipitous rise in unemployment had been arrested (although unemployment hasn't gotten any better) and gross domestic product improved. Still, there is much to be done. Obama's passion as a Conceiver, characterized by a predisposition toward out-of-the-box thinking and a desire to develop new solutions, will be an essential quality as he works to right our economy and stimulate sustained job growth in 2010.
Banking Collapse
President Obama found his Administration in a fight to rescue banks and responded by implementing TARP, with a stress-test process for 19 large financial institutions. Currently, all 19 are still operating, and many have repaid TARP funds. Obama and the Federal Reserve deserve credit for averting a banking collapse. However, an argument could be made that Obama ought to have taken a stronger position on huge bonuses paid to leaders in organizations reaping the benefit of public funds.
I believe that the President learned from this experience and began demanding the accountability taxpayers deserve. In line with his Healer passion, Obama voiced frustration with how banks took advantage of unsuspecting borrowers and sent thousands of American homeowners into foreclosure. To maintain credibility as a leader, he will have to follow through on banking reforms to prevent a recurrence of questionable practices that could further compromise the economy.
Health-Care Reform
One of the most controversial issues on President Obama's agenda—and perhaps the one with the greatest potential to define his legacy—is getting health-care reform passed. Obama has been vigorously challenged on his position by opponents to the bill and had to backtrack on the so-called public option in an effort to get it passed. He came into office having run on a platform of change, with a commitment to transform politics in America and reach across the aisle for co-created solutions.
The battle to reform health care has tested Obama's courage of conviction, his passion for healing, and his ability to influence. A defining objective of 2010 should be building a team out of the collection of legislators bickering on Capitol Hill, and the challenges--and stakes--are amplified by the Democrats' loss of the late Senator Edward M. Kennedy's seat to the Republicans.
