Like any good journalists the Her.ie girls are glued to the telly today as Americans flock to their ballot stations to cast the vote that will determine who will be putting their feet up in front of the White House’s fire for the next four years.
After his memorable and historic holiday to our shores with his lovely wife in tow, we are clear fans of Barack and stare in awe every time he makes an appearance on the small screen.
We couldn’t bear to see the President vacate the White House just yet. Here's a few reasons why we think the O should stay for a bit longer!
He’s Got Friends In Low (And High) Places
It’s no secret that Barack is a bit of a celebrity namedropper and we really can’t blame him for that. Four years ago, Obama and Oprah were the new besties on the block, sharing tea over talks of a better America. This year’s campaign hasn’t gone without the odd celebrity endorsement from Hollywood’s finest including pop icon Katy Perry and Beyoncé.

Obama has his bestie Bill Clinton holding babies for the campaign
Last week even warranted a visit from our favourite silver fox Mr Bill Clinton who must be pretty tight with Barack considering he gave a speech even though he was dying of a cold.
On Monday, in a last attempt to woo the good people of Ohio, Jay-Z and Bruce Springsteen introduced the man himself.
Speaking of his musical cronies Barack said: "They tell the story of what our country is but also of what it should be and what it can be."
To which Jay-Z responded: “I got 99 problems but Mitt ain’t one.”
We wish Barack would invite Her.ie to be his buddy.

Barack Obama pictured with The Boss and Jay-Z on Monday
He’s One Of Us
The Irish always support our own and in 2011, Barack made it clear that he values his Moneygall roots very deeply. The president took time out to visit his relatives in County Offaly and even enjoyed a pint of Guinness with his cousins.
“I'm Barack Obama, of the Moneygall Obamas,” he joked.
“I've come home to find the apostrophe we lost somewhere along the way.”

Somehow, we'd nearly rather Barack on our team
He Knows How To Pick A Catchy Tune
Barack surely would be at home in Coppers because he always hits the nail on the head when it comes to the party play list. This campaign was all about Stevie Wonders’ Signed, Sealed, Delivered and we’re sure that this certainly will be the case for Barack tomorrow morning when the results are revealed

He Knows How To Wow A Crowd
Is it just us or do Obama’s speeches just get more and more inspirational? That guy could read the phone book and motivate you to turn your life around.
We thought ‘Yes We Can’ was deep but ‘Is féidir linn’? It took our breath away!
Barack is great at the auld speeches
He’s An Expert At Trumping Trump
How many more times is Donald Trump going to question Obama’s origin? The ginger just must love being burned by Obama’s witty comebacks. Last year, we giggled at Obama’s birthing video and Barack’s latest response to The Don’s ridiculous accusations had us in convulsions. Check it out below.

