During his visit to the White House, Gov. Jerry Brown said Friday states like California are leading the way on immigration. He also condemned Republican efforts to stop Pres. Barack Obama's immigration executive action.
California and 13 other states are fighting against a court ruling that halted the immigration program. The states are asking the court to allow the plan to go into effect at least in their states.
Obama's executive action could spare as many as 5 million undocumented immigrants from deportation. The plan was blocked last month by U.S. District Judge Andrew Hanen in Brownsville, Texas, following a lawsuit filed by 26 states.
Brown said giving protection from deportation to undocumented immigrants with a clean criminal record is the right thing to do.
"It's human rights, it's decent, it's Christian and I just think some of these Republican governors should be ashamed of themselves," Brown said.
Brown said California has set an example by enacting laws favorable to undocumented immigrants.
"California has been very positive in recent years in regards to our immigrants, and those even who are not documented," Brown said. "And we found it has been very positive, there is no burden at all being inflicted by anybody. It's all good."
Rep. Tom McClintock, R-California, said the state's current laws protecting undocumented immigrants are not working.
"It's a good example of what not to do," McClintock said. "What we forget are the millions of legal immigrants who have obeyed all of our laws, who have waited patiently in line, have done everything our country has asked of them to do, while millions of illegal immigrants cut in line in front of them."
Antonio Campos would be one of the 5 million people who would benefit from the program.
"I've been waiting since 1995 for an opportunity to get in this society the way it should be," Campos said.
He owns a home and a business.
"Obviously, I pay my taxes. And I try to contribute with my work," Campos said.
Campos said has his documents are ready and waiting for the moment he can apply for the program that would give him at least temporary freedom from the fear of deportation.