Obama praises S.D. grads, plugs college plan in visit to Watertown
WATERTOWN President Barack Obama praised tech school graduates and plugged his free community college proposal Friday in his first presidential visit to South Dakota.
Obama delivered a commencement address at the Watertown Civic Arena for 2015 graduates of Lake Area Technical Institute.
The two-year tech school embodies the kind of supportive spirit that helps colleges make a difference in students' lives, Obama said.
About 4,300 people packed the arena from the gymnasium floor to the rafters. About 600 of Lake Area's 720 graduates walked at commencement.
The crowd erupted in applause when Obama mentioned his proposal for government to pay for two years of community college for every student.
"I want to lower the cost of community college in America to zero," Obama said.
The plan, with a roughly $60 billion price tag, would require states to opt in, support a quarter of the remaining costs and agree to support two-year higher education institutions. America's College Promise would also ask states to ensure two-year degrees are easily transferred to four-year colleges, or at least give students the skills they need to find a job, according to the White House.
The proposal hinges on support from Congress, Obama said, and South Dakota lawmakers have been hesitant to say whether they would participate.
The president drew hesitant applause when he said the plan could be paid for by "closing just one loophole for millionaires and billionaires."
"We take responsibility for looking after our own kids," Obama said. "If we got a good break and did well, you know what, we've got to turn around and make sure somebody else gets a break too."
The president's airplane, a smaller Air Force One, touched down in Watertown at about 4:45, nearly an hour later than expected. That left students like Jackson Ruehling, 20, waiting around in cap and gown.
Ruehling didn't know what the plan was for the ceremony, but he felt some pre-graduation anxiety as the minutes ticked forward to the president's arrival.
"I just do what I'm told," he said with a laugh. "I'm ready to get it going."
Organizers let Ruehling and his classmates wander around the arena until the president landed, then sent the crowd of robed graduates back to a waiting area before they processed out to Pomp and Circumstance.
Getting ready, getting in
Amber Boen, a 23-year-old graduate of Lake Area's medical laboratory technician program, was happy to be part of a historical moment for her school and for Watertown.
"I can say that I've officially met the president," Boen said.
Hours before the president's speech, Boen headed for the graduates' entrance on the eastern side of the arena, donning a billowy black gown.
The Wadena, Minn., resident graduated this spring after years of online study. She wanted to walk at commencement because she's proud of her accomplishment, Boen said.
Lake Area instructor Carrie Overby has already seen Obama. She met him. Even snagged a picture with him when he visited South Dakota as a candidate in the 2008 Democratic primaries.
She brought the picture with to the arena, just in case she can get him to sign it.
"Whether you're a Democrat or Republican, you should just be grateful," Overby said. "It's POTUS!"
Not everyone in Watertown for the event had a direct connection to the school.
Pierre resident Vonnie Shields, 71, found a ticket through her "son's good friend's daughter," she said. Shields drove more than three hours to see Obama speak. She voted for him in both elections.
One of the first to arrive near the arena's western entrance, Shields propped open a lawn chair to stay comfortable as she waited for the doors to open.
"I admire him," Shields said. "I think he's doing a good job."
Garretson resident Mary Tilberg, 46, has a son at Lake Area Tech, but he isn't graduating this year. That didn't stop her from taking the day off and making the president's visit a family affair.
She pulled her son out of class at Garretson High School, and brought along her sister.
"We were raised to be very patriotic," Tilberg said.
Ticketless, they still wanted to be part of the presidential milieu during what will likely be a historic moment for South Dakota.
"Curiousity," Tilberg's sister, Sam Williamson said.
The 48-year-old Williamson and her family visited Watertown Regional Airport first, but were kicked out by a man Williamson thinks was with the U.S. Secret Service.
The plan was to somehow catch a glimpse of the president's motorcade – maybe the president. Before his arrival, they made due with a cardboard cutout of the president, stationed in Lake Area's student center, near the cafeteria.
Praise for school, grads
Those with tickets waited nearly an hour longer than expected to see the commander-and-chief. Despite the president's late arrival, the crowd seemed patient and subdued during the hour-long delay.
Once he arrived, Obama was greeted by cheers, spoke to steady applause and ended with a standing ovation.
Two-year schools such as Lake Area are important to the American economy, Obama said.
"Community colleges like this one can be a great place for young people to launch a career," Obama said. "But they're also a great place for folks who have been in the workforce for a while."
Obama also mentioned the Aspen Institute awards. Lake Area is one of two community colleges to rank as a top finalist in 2011, 2013 and 2015, he said.
For 20-year-old student Drew Hofer, it was nice to hear the president speak so highly of two-year institutions. Hofer graduated from the automotive technician program.
"It was an honor to be there," Hofer said. "It was just a privilege."
Obama called a few graduates out by name, but offered congratulatory words to all.
"You have earned the chance to walk the road to freedom," Obama said. "To write that next great chapter in our American story. Your path will not always be easy. The way forward will not always be clear. But you worked hard for this moment."


