Yes we can all adopt ethical leadership qualities
MIND MOVES: Many of us admire Barack Obama’s leadership qualities but few realise we can all behave like him, writes TERRY LYNCH
At this time of unparalleled public uncertainty regarding who or what is trustworthy, the need for effective leaders at all levels of society has rarely been more urgent.
The jury is still out regarding the leadership of Barack Obama. His impact has already been profound and satisfaction rates for his presidency exceed 70 per cent.
It certainly is opportune that the most powerful man in the world appears to possess such high quality leadership capabilities. However, the need for real leadership in Ireland, and elsewhere, is indeed great.
Do not under-estimate the contribution you could make by enhancing your own leadership qualities. In this regard, Barack Obama provides a fascinating study into the attributes of great leadership.
In your life, do you live and practise these qualities?
An excellent communicator, Obama talks the talk and, so far, walks the walk. His qualities and skills include a strong work ethic, honesty, integrity, inner strength, humility, respect, inner peace and calm. He is inclusive in nature, not divisive; he brings people with him.
He exhibits courage, balance and empathy. He has poise and a great sense of balance – an essential attribute when dealing with complex and often conflicting demands. He has vision, but he is also a realist.
He epitomises assertiveness, determination, purpose and direction without arrogance. He appears dedicated, consistent, insightful. He is perceptive, intuitive, sensitive yet forthright.
He exudes wisdom, responsibility, good judgment and problem-solving skills, friendliness, humanity and good humour. He is intellectual yet ordinary; persuasive, adaptable, flexible yet steadfast; inspiring, forward-looking, competent, fair-minded and broad-minded.
Decisive and courageous but not reckless, he is his own person, a man who is unlikely to succumb to interest groups whose priorities do not complement the greater good. He is no pushover. He is quite prepared to express anger (rather than aggression) when necessary.
It might be tempting to presume that leadership is the responsibility of a few; of those at the top. But the crisis our country faces requires each of us to look into our own hearts and minds, and to lead and take initiative wherever we can rather than see ourselves as followers, without any leadership role or responsibility.
Obama handles both the detail and the big picture with equal aplomb. He is clearly able to motivate, leading with integrity and by example, thus building credibility and trust.
He is empathic and committed to the betterment of people’s lives. He aspires to the ethical use of power and leadership, serving the good of the American people, humanity and the planet rather than for personal aggrandisement or gain. He takes stewardship of power for the good of society rather than possessiveness of power for its own sake.
Effective leaders like Obama are also followers. They listen, they hear the needs of others and act accordingly. They also follow their hearts and minds and attune to what is right, with courage and conviction.
Like Obama, great leaders surround themselves with the best people, not yes-men. They care little who gets the credit. Emotionally mature, Obama does not personalise criticism, and so minimises the risk of fuelling grudges and aggressive backlashes.
He appears highly organised, with excellent social skills and has the ability to enthuse and inspire people towards agreed goals.
Obama does not defend the indefensible, or disguise the truth in complex or hackneyed excuses or justifications. He is direct and doesn’t use double-speak or deceit. He is straight and true.
He is single-minded but well capable of working effectively with others. He acknowledges his fallibility and mistakes.
He has already demonstrated the honesty and capacity to apologise properly when appropriate. “I screwed up,” are not words we hear from leaders very often. As leader, he is highly visible and uses an effective chain of command.
Realistically optimistic regarding shepherding and facilitating positive change, Obama seems intent on delivering on his promises with well-constructed plans. Authentic, resourceful and magnanimous, he seeks to empower people.
He will need to remain focused and clear-thinking when problems arise for him, as they already have, and remain enthusiastic and inspiring when others are beginning to weaken and lose heart.
Politically savvy, Obama has the ability to comprehend and master complex situations. He rallies people around meaningful causes, fostering hope, confidence and self-belief in those he leads. These are key components of positive change and growth.
We are all both leaders and followers. We all possess many of these qualities, though they may be somewhat undeveloped or under-utilised within us and within our lives. If we are prepared to work at it, each of us can expand and enhance our leadership qualities.
To paraphrase John F Kennedy, another memorable leader, why not develop and maximise your leadership qualities? You and those around you will benefit, perhaps more than you can imagine.
It is no coincidence that many of the qualities of good leadership are also qualities that considerably enrich our own lives. Can we incorporate more of these qualities into ourselves and our lives, so that we might become more whole, more human, better leaders and people? Yes we can.
